# Image-recognition-Project---CMSE202

## Instructions on how to run

-Either clone the GitHub repository or download all the files to your machine. (Make sure the file structure stays the same)

-Ensure you have downloaded TensorFlow and sklearn.

-Our code comes pre-ran as the model takes around an hour to compute, but you can restart and run everything in the kernel to ensure the program is working correctly.


##Abstract
For our semester project, we focused on applying machine learning to image classification. Image classification involves labeling images based on patterns recognized by models that one trains. Hence, we wanted to answer the research question: “How Can We Train a Model to Accurately Identify Shapes such as Triangles, Rectangles, and Ellipses?”. The end goal of our project was to develop a working model capable of classifying images into specific shape categories. For our project, we selected a dataset of hand-drawn images sourced from Kaggle. Hand-drawn images have imperfections, which forces the model to identify general patterns to classify shapes rather than relying on the exact shape every time. To work with the dataset in Jupyter Notebook, we utilized the Pillow (PIL) library to read our image data as numpy arrays in the notebook. After this step, we utilized the sklearn library from scikit-learn to split our data into testing and training sets. We allocated 75% of the data to training the model and 25% for testing. This would be useful for training our model to identify the shapes as accurately as possible. Our initial approach involved brainstorming different ways to get the model to identify the shapes. The first idea involved the model finding the number of angles or sides the shape may have or the angles in the shape. However, we soon realized this method of implementing our idea was impractical. After researching potential solutions, we decided to use TensorFlow. Tensorflow has packages dedicated to image classification, which is a crucial step forward for our project. Within Tensorflow, we settled on using the Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) package as our image classification method. CNNs are beneficial for image identification because they can accurately classify images while requiring fewer lines of code than other approaches. To start, we had to reshape the images to match TensorFlow's required format. From this point, we could make our training and testing sets and train the model with assistance from CNN. After training, our model achieved 99% accuracy when it was finished running. To ensure this wasn’t a fluke, we modified the original images by rotating and altering their positions. This time, we would compile our data with better learning rates to allow the model to train more effectively and be relatively accurate. As a result, our model retained a 98%+ accuracy while identifying and classifying the shapes. In summary, we concluded that we can utilize CNN to assist with the image classification of triangles, rectangles, and ellipses with near-perfect accuracy.
